---
layout: post
title: FMark
categories: portfolio imperial
image: assets/img/fmark.jpg
date: 2018-3-23
github: FMark
permalink: /portfolio/fmark/
---

FMark is a markdown parser that features many extensions to 
[GFM](https://github.github.com/gfm/) (Github Flavoured Markdown), such as macros, spread sheet
functionality, and more extensions described below.

## Introduction

The [markdown parser](https://github.com/ymherklotz/FMark) is written and implemented
in F#. Even though there is an available module, called [FSharp.Formatting](TODO) 
that is also written in F# that supports markdown parsing and converting the output to HTML, 
we decided to right our own markdown parser. In addition to the simple markdown parser, 
a lot of extensions were added to the main parser to support the features mentioned below.

- GFM parsing
- Custom macro support
- Spread sheet functionality
- Citations and Footnote support
- Full HTML generation

A Visual Studio Code [extension](https://github.com/ymherklotz/FMark-vscode) was also developed 
to integrate the parser into and editor and make it more useable.

## Motivation

The main motivation for this project was to create a more powerful version of markdown that 
could be used to easily take notes in lectures.

### Re-implementation of the Parser

Instead of using the FSharp.Formatting module, it was decided that the parser should be 
re-implemented. We found that the FSharp.Formatting module was not generic enough and
did not allow as easy implementation of the extensions we wanted to add to markdown.

## Custom Features

### Macros

Macros were a feature that we thought should definitely be added to the parser, as it allows
for a large extensibility, as the markdown parser also supports full HTML pass-through. This means 
that macros can be created that contain pure HTML which will be output in exactly the same way, 
and enables the addition of things like text boxes or colourful boxes.

#### Examples

The following code produces an HTML text box in a custom colour that can be typed in when the
HTML of the page is displayed.

{% raw %}
``` html
{% macro input(text)

<form action="/html/tags/html_form_tag_action.cfm" method="post">
<textarea name="comments" id="comments" style="width:92%;height:140px;padding:2%;font-size:1.2em;border:12px outset #6DB72C;">
{{text}}
</textarea><br>
<input type="submit" value="Submit">
</form>

%}
```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}
<form action="/html/tags/html_form_tag_action.cfm" method="post">
<textarea name="comments" id="comments" style="width:92%;height:140px;padding:2%;font-size:1.2em;border:12px outset #6DB72C;">
Argument that is passed to the macro.
</textarea><br>
<input type="submit" value="Submit">
</form>
{% endcomment %}

### Spread Sheet

Sometimes it is useful to directly do calculations in tables, as they are often used to display information.
This can then be used to make tables more generic and not have to copy all the values over once
something changes.

#### Functionality

Current functionality includes

- __Cell Selection__ can be done using the following notation: `[y,x]`

- __Ranges__ can be defined by using the following notation: `[y1,x1]:[y2,x2]`

- __Functions__
  - __AVG__: calculates the averages over a range.
  - __SUM__: calculates the sum over a range of values.

#### Examples

|This|is|FMark|
|---|---|---|
|=5|=3|=SUM{[1,0]:[1,1]}|
|=5%3|=[1,0]*[1,1]/((7-4)+2)|=AVG{[1,0]:[1,2]},2|

<br>will get transformed into the table below once it is evaluated.

|This|is|FMark|
|---|---|---|
|5|3|8|
|2|3|5|

<br>This means that the raw numbers can be changed, but the output for each cell can be dynamic.
